if we state this as a general matter of
principle there will be no doubt in any
of our minds as to what is right and
what is wrong and yet when we move from
abstract principle to the practicalities
of the particular example I think many
people in the audience will start to
feel conflicted if I were to ask you is
it the role of a journalist a
professional journalist of the New York
Times to reveal or to conceal the
political motivations of the man who
just pulled the triggers murdering a
huge number of people in a mosque in New
Zealand what what is the role of
journalists well when stated that
broadly as a matter of principle it
seems utterly absurd to imagine that
concealment is journalism and yet in
2019 this is precisely what paid pundits
are saying is their moral responsibility
this is a puzzle that was already
familiar in exactly magazines like New
York Times The Economist the suppose
that was already familiar back when Ted
Kaczynski who was responsible for the
deaths of just three people taken Zen
ski a terrorist wanted his manifesto
published in mainstream newspapers and
the question was would publishing the
political manifesto of a mass murderer
or serial killer would that encourage
others to commit the same crime and then
what is the responsibility of the mass
media the mainstream press it seems
deeply morally incoherent for the role
of a journalist to be anything other
than broadcasting researching analyzing
what the news is and relaying it to the
public as best they can and yet this
role of Guardian of public morality
through concealment it has crept in more
and more to how the professional media
consider their own role in contrast to
people like myself in contrast to
freelance self-appointed largely unpaid
opinion makers on the internet people
who may just do their own research and
present their own opinions on social
media whether it's
YouTube Facebook or what-have-you that
the role of the professional journalist
is instead to be responsible and to
exercise that responsibility but
precisely concealing the sources they're
working from so I read you just one
sentence here from the New York Times
I'll provide a link in the description
of this video
the manifesto the manifesto of the man
who just pulled the trigger
in New Zealand the manifesto a wordy
mixture of white nationalist boilerplate
fascist declarations and references to
obscure internet jokes seems to have
been written from the bottom of an
algorithmic rabbit hole so the video
tape of the event transpiring we are
given to assume this journalist has seen
and yet the journalist and large
corporations like Facebook and YouTube
as described integral they're doing
everything they can to make it
impossible for you in the audience to
see these videos of what happened for
yourself it is that the journalist
responsibility or if the journalist has
this primary source material should they
share with you the assassination of
United States President Kennedy JFK is
it the role of a journalist to conceal
from you videotape Pete scene of thats
right that time not videotape just film
a recording of what happened would that
be what a good journalist would do it
certainly would be disturbing and
upsetting for the public to see footage
of the assassination of American
President Kennedy right and yet now we
look back and see that it was of
tremendous importance for the public to
see what evidence was available
preferably in film that hadn't been
edited in such a way as to be misleading
so on and so forth there was a really
important role for journalists there
write this written manifesto I have no
reason to think this journalist is being
dishonest or is deliberately misleading
you in this summary but again we're led
to believe that this journalist has seen
and read the original talk I don't know
well I I do not know and yet we're told
that the efforts are being made by all
of these mainstream institutions and
corporations to prevent the spread the
proliferation the availability of that
same manifesto now wouldn't the proper
role of any journalist to instead be to
responsibly quote and cite the sources
he or she is working from and indeed to
make them available on some neutral
platform like the New York Times why
shouldn't the New York Times themselves
publish the footage why shouldn't they
themselves publish and make available
this manifesto precisely for its
political and historical significance
now I assume I would find the contents
of this manifesto completely despicable
I assume I would only criticize it or
does the earth whatever I seem I would
have no sympathy with it whatsoever but
the question is at what point did the
role of the journalist and the role of
large institutions like the New York
Times like Facebook like YouTube itself
at what point did their role become
custodian of public morality someone who
preserves the morality of the public by
keeping them in a state of pious
ignorance instead of investigating
analyzing and presenting the news and
the news sometimes includes film clips
horrifying film clips of someone being
shot in the head and dying including
former US President John Kennedy
probably every single person watching
this video has at some point in their
life seen photographs or the actual film
recording of john f kennedy's
assassination it doesn't get more
graphic than that so if you think the
role of journalist is censorship then
you must believe that the role of a
journalist is to remove from the public
record removed from view concealed from
you and the audience the horrifying
reality of what this this matter of
public record
must be ok Ted Kaczynski known as the
Unabomber how could I rely on a sort
one sentence summary of what that
manifesto says and what its political
significance is even the best in with
the best intentions possible on the part
of the journalist a one sentence
dismissal like this is not going to give
you a sense of you know politically who
this person was or what they represented
what they were connected to the FBI and
the CIA will want to have the complete
original document precisely so they can
engage in political analysis of this and
understand where this you know terrorist
attack came from what motivated it who
this person was connected to in some
sense what they were reading or what
they were influenced by there's a lot to
know here precisely for the people who
most directly opposed this kind of crime
right now there's a very strange
parallel provided by the reaction to the
music of Michael Jackson and to some
extent the the reaction the music of
singer R Kelly in the last few weeks and
you know look I know it's a bad joke to
compare everything to Adolf Hitler in
some countries you know it's illegal for
people to see or show old Nazi
propaganda films and the concern is that
by showing these propaganda films or by
having a book like mine Kampf books
actually written by Hitler by having
these sorts of things available they're
going to influence people to imitate
them I suppose it's very very hard for
me to see how listening to the music of
Michael Jackson would lead people to
imitate Michael Jackson or how listening
to the music of our Kelly would lead
people to aspire to be like or have the
kind of private life that our Kellyanne
sex life yet and so on so there isn't
any clear you know dotted line between
cause and effect there I think if we're
being honest with ourselves however in
this case obviously the fear is that
people in the audience are so weak
willed are so
weak-minded that they cannot resist the
influence of these film clips or this
manifesto if they are exposed to them
now I can't say to you that that is
untrue of a hundred percent of the
audience maybe 1% of people in the
audience are so stupid and so weak
willed that they'll be seduced by this
maybe it's 5% I doubt it that would be a
huge percentage of people to sympathize
with this kind of extremist manifesto
but whether it's 1% or 5% or 10% the
responsibility of the journalist cannot
be and must not be pandering to the
stupidest 10% of the audience nor can it
be attempting to pull the wool over
their eyes to keep that stupid as 10% in
a kind of blissful ignorance New York
Times if you have this document if you
have acquired and read this manifesto
you should on your website publish the
document both to vindicate your
journalists to show that they're doing
their research and to make it available
for scholars political political
analysts the FBI or anyone else who
wants to read it you should verify the
reality of it if you have these film
clips you should show that you the New
York Times have a higher standard of
responsibility than Facebook and YouTube
you can host these films on your own
website for the public record and I
think you know very well if it were John
F Kennedy being shot in the head you
would be proud to be the news
organization that broadcast that footage
or that preserved it on the Internet
it's very very hard to take pride in
this kind of investigative journalism
but it's shameful to engage in this kind
of self-selected blinding of the public
to the political content of major events
that are now unfolding on the public
record